catjob(8)
A manpage for B<job> - the Linux Batch Facility.

=pod

=head1 NAME

catjob - Display to I<stdout> the output and results from a job's run.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

catjob I<[options]> I<job_id>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Use B<catjob> to display the captured output from a batch job as well as 
the result(s) of each run attempt (a "try").  By default, all tries are shown,
but individual tries may be selected.

=head1 OPTIONS

Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

=over

=item -h, --help

Show this help message and exit.

=item -l, --log-level LEVEL

Set the internal log level; used for debugging.
Levels are (in order) fatal, error, warn, info, verbose, debug, verbosedebug, always, and silent.
Using the C<--verbose> option is equivalent to C<--log-level verbose> .

=item -o, --output

When used with -r, show both the output and the result(s).
Without -r, this is enabled by default.

=item -r, --result

Show the result from tries, such as exit status or the signal that terminated the job.

=item -R, --root-dir DIR

Root directory of filesystem, default is /.
Queues will be placed under var/spool/job starting at this root.
If you need an entirely different location for the job queues,
consider softlinking to this location.  This option mostly used
for testing.

=item  -t, --try-number NUM

Show the output or results from only this try.

=item -v, --verbose

Show more output.

=item -w, --raw

Show the job file contents, raw (unaltered).  This is equivalent
to just cat'ting the job file.  This overrides the other options.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Show the output from job 407:
 # B<catjob 407>
 processor	: 0
 vendor_id	: AuthenticAMD
 cpu family	: 16
 model		: 6
 model name	: AMD Athlon(tm) II X2 B28 Processor
 stepping	: 3
 microcode	: 0x10000b6
   .
   .
   .

Show just the final result from job 408:
 # B<catjob -r 408>
 Exit-Signal: 0
 Exit-Status: 3
 Result:      Failed

Show both the output and result from just the second try for job 409, with verbose results:
 # B<< catjob -r -o -t 2 -v 409 >>
 Command:     fibbonize -q home-office.mycorp.example.com:2371
 Job-ID:      409
 Job-Prio:    5
 Job-Queue:   nightly-probes
 Start-Time:  2014-12-28T19:07:29Z
 Submitter:   balrog
 Try-Count:   2
 ---
 Initializing database... done
 Fetching poll list... done
 Connecting to remote server... no response: connection refused
 Fibbonizer will try again
 ---
 Exit-Signal: 0
 Exit-Status: 11
 Try-Count:   2
 End-Time:    2014-12-28T19:07:47Z
 Result:      Will Retry

=head1 SEE ALSO

job(7), job.conf(5), jobman(8), edjobq(8), lsjobq(8), mkjobq(8), rmjobq(8), edjob(8), lsjob(8), mkjob(8), rmjob(8)

=head1 BUGS

Use the issue tracker at L<https://github.com/spook/job> .  
Don't be shy; check what's already reported and if you have a new bug,
please let me know!

=head1 COPYRIGHT

LGPL 2.1+

job - the Linux Batch Facility
(c) Copyright 2014-2016 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP
Created by Uncle Spook <spook(at)MisfitMountain(dot)org>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2.1 of the License, or any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301
USA

