job.conf(5)
A manpage for B<job> - the Linux Batch Facility.

=pod

=head1 NAME

B<job.conf> - Configuration files for B<job> - the Linux Batch Facility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B</etc/job/job.conf> - System-wide configuration file

B</etc/job/qdefs/I<qname>.conf> - Per-queue configuration files

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These are the configuration files for the B<job> subsystem.
The job manager jobman(7), and the related utilities  
edjobq(8), lsjobq(8), mkjobq(8), rmjobq(8), catjob(8), edjob(8), lsjob(8), mkjob(8), rmjob(8)
all read from or write to these files.

The system-wide configuration file C</etc/job/job.conf> sets the overall
defaults for the system; these values may be overriden on a per-queue basis
by each queue's configuration file, found in C</etc/job/qdefs/> having the
name of the queue as the basename, ending in C<.conf> .

The configuration file format is the popular "INI" format; where key-value
pairs are grouped into sections.  Sections are identified by the section name
inside square brackets; keys and their values are delimited by the colon, one per line.
Lines starting with # and empty lines are interpreted as comments.

=head2 Example

 [queue]
 name:      batch
 desc:      Default batch queue
 state:     run
 run-limit: 10
 max-tries: 100


=head2 System-Wide Keys

Keys used in the sytem-wide configuration file are in the C<[job]> section of the file.  
They are:

=over

=item default-queue

Names the default queue for the system.  For example, "batch".

=item run-limit

Defines the maximum number of concurrent jobs that can be in C<run> state in the queue
at any one time.  In otherwords, the number of jobs that ban be running at a time.
The job manager C<jobman> heeds this value, and per-queue definitions will override
this value.  Supply a positive integer; the default is 10.

=item max-tries

For a job, defines the maximum number of times the job may re-try before the job
manager terminates the job.  The default is 100.
The job manager C<jobman> heeds this value, and per-queue definitions will override
this value.  

=item zone

When using B<job> in a distributed environment, this is the node's zone number.
Must be from 1 to 9, else 0 or blank means not using zones.  Anything else is an error.

=back

=head2 Per-queue Keys

Keys used on a per-queue basis are found in the per-queue config files,
in the C<[queue]> section of the file.  Keys are:

=over

=item name

The name of the queue.  It must be a simple identifier, 
consisting of only the letters A-Z and a-z, the digits 0-9, 
the dash (-), or the underscore(-).  It should be 32 characters
length or less.

Note: currently these name limitations are not checked; but they
may be in a future revision; so be warned!

=item desc

A short description of the queue.  Limit this description to 50 characters.

=item state

Indicates the current state of the queue.  
The C<run> state for a normal queue that is processing jobs; this is the usual state.
The C<shut> state is for a queue that will not accept any furthur jobs, but will still
process existing jobs in its queue.
The C<stop> state is for a queue that does not process any jobs, nor will it accept new jobs.

=item run-limit

Defines the maximum number of concurrent jobs that can be in C<run> state in the queue
at any one time, as served by this node.  For example, if two nodes are sharing
a distributed queue, node A may have (for example) a limit of 250, while node B (a smaller
node perhaps) a limit of 100.  Supply a positive integer; the default is 10.

=item max-tries

For a job, defines the maximum number of times the job may re-try before the job
manager terminates the job.  The default is 100.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

job(7), jobman(8), edjobq(8), lsjobq(8), mkjobq(8), rmjobq(8), catjob(8), edjob(8), lsjob(8), mkjob(8), rmjob(8)

=head1 BUGS

Use the issue tracker at L<https://github.com/spook/job> .  
Don't be shy; check what's already reported and if you have a new bug,
please let me know!

=head1 COPYRIGHT

LGPL 2.1+

job - the Linux Batch Facility
(c) Copyright 2014-2016 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP
Created by Uncle Spook <spook(at)MisfitMountain(dot)org>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2.1 of the License, or any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301
USA

