queman(8)
A manpage for B<job> - the Linux Batch Facility.

=pod

=head1 NAME

B<queman> - Queue manager daemon for B<job> - the Linux Batch Facility.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

/usr/bin/queman I<options>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<queman> is the daemon that monitors queues coming and going,
for the Linux Batch Facility.  For each defined queue, it
launches an instance of C<jobman> to manage that queue; 
for each deleted queue, it kills off the existing C<jobman> instance.

B<queman> is normally started by the operating system at boot time.
Its usual location is C</usr/bin/queman> .

=head1 OPTIONS

The default option values are sufficient for most installations, so it is 
typical to run B<queman> with no options.
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

=over

=item -D, --nodaemonize

Run immediate; do not become a daemon

=item -h, --help

Show this help message and exit.

=item -l, --log-level LEVEL

Set the internal log level; used for debugging.
Levels are (in order) fatal, error, warn, info, verbose, debug, verbosedebug, always, and silent.
Using the C<--verbose> option is equivalent to C<--log-level verbose> .

=item -R, --root-dir DIR

Root directory of filesystem, default is /.
Queues will be placed under var/spool/job starting at this root.
If you need an entirely different location for the job queues,
consider softlinking to this location.  This option mostly used
for testing.

=item -s, --sleep SECS

Set the sleep time -- the polling time -- to SECS seconds.
Shorter invervals check your queue definitions more often but consume more system resources,
and values less than about 5 seconds are ineffective anyway as the queue manager
will be spinning constantly (you don't want that).  Typical values are in the 30 
to 120 second range.
This option overrides the default in the config file.

=item -t, --test-time SECS

For testing only.  Run the job manager but exit after SECS secs.
Normally the job manager runs forever, or until signalled to terminate (see L</SIGNALS> below).

=item -T, --test-prefix PFX

For testing only.  Applies a prefix to the process name for this daemon,
so it can be easily found by the test script.

=item -v, --verbose

Show more output.

=back

=head1 OVERVIEW

B<queman> is the system queues manager, 
watching all the defined queues on the system for new/changed/removed
queues.  As queues come and go, it starts or stops a specific job managers
for that queue.  

The B<queman> is normally run as a root service on your system.

To make it easy to identify, this daemon sets its process name to "queman".

=head1 SIGNALS

Send a SIGHUP to a B<queman> daemon to cause it to immediately rescan
queues.

Send a SIGTERM to a B<queman> for a clean shutdown.

=head1 SEE ALSO

job(7), jobman(8), lsjobq(8), edjobq(5), mkjobq(8), rmjobq(8), catjob(8), mkjob(8), lsjob(8), edjob(8), rmjob(8)

=head1 BUGS

Use the issue tracker at L<https://github.com/spook/job> .  
Don't be shy; check what's already reported and if you have a new bug,
please let me know!

=head1 COPYRIGHT

LGPL 2.1+

job - the Linux Batch Facility
(c) Copyright 2014-2016 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP
Created by Uncle Spook <spook(at)MisfitMountain(dot)org>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2.1 of the License, or any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301
USA

